SPECIFIC AIMS 
The lines of research investigating working memory (i.e., short-term memory) and long-term memory have diverged during the last several decades, such that the relationship between working memory and long-term memory storage is rarely discussed and theoretical treatments of these different types of memory storage often do not acknowledge the role played by the other memory system (Cowan 2016). Although this is a simplifying assumption of much memory research, this narrowing of theoretical focus greatly limits our understanding of human memory generally, preventing us from constructing unified models of the human memory system. 

_The goal of this project is to develop and test a computational model of human memory that provides mechanistic explanations for human performance and electrophysiological brain activity in visual memory tasks using cognitive machinery developed to explain performance and brain activity in long-term memory tasks._ This model challenges a foundational proposal in both psychology and neuroscience: That information must be temporarily held in short-term memory in order for long-term memory traces to be constructed (Hebb 1949, James 1890, Shiffrin & Atkinson 1969). In this modeling framework, long-term memories begin to be constructed as soon as an item is attended and working memory processes reactivate and manipulate these long-term memories to support flexible human behavior. By reaching across the theoretical divide between working and long-term memory research, we hope to bring the divergent lines of work examining working memory and long-term memory together. This theoretical unification will lay the foundation for a comprehensive model of human memory that will provide new insights into the continuity of working memory and long-term memory deficits in memory disorders and cognitive impairments in aging. 

_Our approach is to collect empirical behavioral data and electrophysiological recordings from human participants performing visual working memory tasks that will allow us to iteratively refine a computational model (as shown in **Fig. 1**) of performance and brain signals in these tasks._ The computational model at the heart of our proposal is a long-standing, well-understood model of human long-term memory in which a gradually changing representation of temporal context is stamped into every one of our long-term episodic memories (Howard & Kahana 2002, Polyn et al. 2009). A memory targeting system uses temporal context as a spotlight to activate recent memories, and the dynamics of this temporal targeting mechanism allows the system to account for benchmark performance limitations and neural signals traditionally taken as evidence for a capacity-limited system. This model provides a coherent framework challenging the longstanding proposal that working memory is supported by a capacity-limited short-term storage system that acts as the gateway to long-term memory (Luck & Vogel 2013). The proposed experiments are designed to challenge our modeling framework, allowing us to adjudicate between competing model variants incorporating different configurations of cognitive mechanisms involving attentional selection, short-term storage, and long-term storage. We will deploy this new approach in our work to accomplish the following specific aims: 

**Aim 1: Test the temporal targeting account of visual working memory.** In three experiments with sequentially presented visual materials, we characterize the recency effect (Exp. 1), disrupt it with post-list distraction (Exp. 2), and attempt to recover it with inter-item distraction (Exp. 3), testing unique model proposals regarding how temporal targeting underlies performance in benchmark visual memory tasks. Preliminary simulations & data included. 

**Aim 2: Demonstrate the ubiquity of long-term memory effects in visual working memory tasks.** We modify the benchmark memory tasks from Aim 1 to amplify the influence of recent stimulus history in interfering and facilitative ways (Exp. 4) and to examine how long-term memories can be filtered based on spatial and categorical features (Exp. 5), testing unique model predictions regarding the long-term memory structures underlying performance in short-term memory tasks. Preliminary simulations & data included. 

---

Figure 1. Illustration of our iterative cycle of model-derived paradigm development, behavioral and electrophysiological data collection, affording empirical testing of model variants to distinguish between competing architectures of human memory.