# Is the amygdala a locus of “conditioned fear”? Some questions and caveats

> Since the publication of Weiskrantz’ seminal paper, widely interpreted as suggesting that amygdala lesions impair the formation of stimulus–reinforcement associations (Weiskrantz 1956), extensive research in many laboratories has attempted to determine the role(s) of the amygdala in learning and memory. In recent years, many studies have investigated amygdala participation in Pavlovian “fear conditioning” in rats. The findings of such studies have suggested that the amygdala may be an essential link in a subcortical circuit mediating the formation and permanent (or “indelible”) storage of “conditioned fear” (reviewed by LeDoux 1995; Maren and Fanselow 1996; Davis 1997). Succinctly put, interpretations of the findings have suggested that “…attaching `fear’ to the previously neutral stimulus and remembering it is what the amygdala does” (Stevens 1998). Evidence from many studies is consistent with the hypothesis that the amygdala—in particular, the lateral/basolateral (L/BL) nuclei—encodes and permanently stores learned fear. However, there is also evidence that challenges this hypothesis. Evaluation of the hypothesis and the supporting evidence requires consideration and clarification of several critical issues.

This maybe isn't the ideal starting point for exploring the relationship between the amygdala and hippocampus in emotional memory given its age. 

This paper primarily seeks to problematize the idea that the amygdala is the site of emotional memory storage, particularly in fear conditioning, pointing out challenges to this view in the literature.